>>> ISRAEL SAYS THAT HAMAS COULD
BE HOLDING AS MANY AS 199
HOSTAGES, AND TAKING CAPTIVE IN
THE TERROR ATTACKS THAT KILLED
AS MANY AS 1,400 PEOPLE.
AND ONE OF THEM IS MIA SCHEM WHO
WAS AT THE MUSIC FESTIVAL.
>> AND WE SPOKE TO HER MOTHER
AND BROTHERS ABOUT THE VIDEO
THAT WAS RELEASED OF THEIR
SISTER AND DAUGHTER.
>> THAT IS ALL WE WANT.
JUST TO GET MIA BACK TO US.
>> WE ARE BEGGING THE WORLD TO
BRING MY BABY HOME.
>> WITH US RIGHT NOW IS CNN
NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYST PETER
BERGEN ON THIS.
THANK YOU FOR COMING IN.
YOU HAVE HAD SOME CONVERSATIONS
IN THE PAST DAYS OF WHAT ARE
REALLY THE AIMS AND GOALS OF
HAMAS.
THE IDF SAYS THAT THIS HOSTAGE
VIDEO BEING RELEASED IS A
PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE ON THE
ISRAELI CIVILIAN, AND WHAT DO
YOU THINK IT IS?
>> WELL, THERE'S THAT, AND IT IS
ALSO PROOF OF LIFE THAT THE
HOSTAGE HAS BEEN TAKEN, AND
HOSTAGE-TAKING SITUATION, AND
OFTEN THE TERRORIST GROUP WILL
RELEASE A VIDEO, AND OBVIOUSLY,
IT IS VERY, VERY TRAUMATIZING
FOR THE FAMILY, BUT AS YOU KNOW,
KATE, YOU HAVE GOT 199 HOSTAGES,
AND HAMAS CLAIMS 200 TO 250, AND
YOU HAVE PALESTINIAN AND ISLAMIC
JIHAD WHO CLAIMED 230 IN
BEGINNING, SO IT IS NOT CLEAR OF
HOW MANY HAVE BEEN TAKEN, BUT
THIS IS A PROOF OF LIFE OF ONE
HOSTAGE, AND SO, WE HAVE SEEN
TONY BLINKEN GOING TO QATAR TO
SPEAK TO THE QATARI GOVERNMENT
WHICH IS THE MOST FRUITFUL WAY
THAT THIS MIGHT BE RESOLVED IN
SOME WAY THAT IS, YOU KNOW, TO
HAVE THE SAFE RELEASE OF THE
HOSTAGES.
THEY WERE HELPFUL IN GETTING
FIVE AMERICANS OUT OF IRAN LAST
MONTH, AND SENT HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS INTO GAZA, AND THEY DO
HAVE RELATIONS WITH HAMAS, AND
THE POLITICAL SITUATION AND THE
MILITARY SITUATION ARE ALL VERY
COMPLICATED, BUT IF THERE IS
GOING TO BE A PEACEFUL SITUATION
FOR SOME OF THIS TO THE HOSTAGES
THE QATARI GOVERNMENT IS THE
MOST LIKELY VENUE.
>> PETER, IT IS A STAGGERING
NUMBER OF POTENTIAL HOSTAGES
FROM A WIDE RANGE OF COUNTRIES
AND NOT JUST ISRAELI, BUT
COUNTRIES ALL OVER THE WORLD.
WHY DO YOU THINK THAT HAMAS DID
IT?
ARE THEY GETTING WHAT THEY WANT
OUT OF IT?
AND IS THERE THE INTERNATIONAL
OUTRAGE THAT THEY HAD EXPECTED
FROM IT?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY ARE GETTING
OUT OF IT IS FIRST OF ALL HUMAN
SHIELDS TO GO BACK TO THE FIRST
GULF WAR.
SADDAM HUSSEIN DID SOMETHING
SIMILAR AND HE GATHERED
LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF HUMAN
SHIELDS TO HAVE AN ATTACK
AGAINST HIM.
AND THIS IS CLOSE TO THE SCALE
OF 200 HOSTAGES IT SEEMS.
AND SO, A, KIND OF DISWADING ANY
KIND OF ISRAELI MILITARY ACTION,
AND OBVIOUSLY A DEAL DOWN ROAD,
AND HAMAS HAS NOTHING TO SHOW
FOR THE CONFLICT IN TERMS OF ANY
REAL POLITICAL GOAL.
IF THEY CAN GET SOME PRISONERS
BACK, OBVIOUSLY, THAT IS
SOMETHING THEY WANT.
MAYBE THAT IS THE INTENTION IN
THE BEGINNING OF THIS, AND
OBVIOUSLY THE OPERATION BECAME
BIGGER AND THEY KILLED MORE
PEOPLE THAN INITIALLY WAS THE
PLAN.
AND IS IT GETTING THE
INTERNATIONAL ATTENTION, AND THE
SHORT ANSWER IS YES, AND 30
NATIONALITIES OF VARIOUS KINDS,
AND THIS SEEMS TO BE A GREAT
DEAL OF CONCERN AROUND THE
WORLD, INCLUDING FROM THE UNITED
STATES ABOUT THESE HOSTAGES, AND
HOPEFULLY THERE CAN BE A SUCCESS
RESOLUTION STARTING WITH THE
CHILDREN AND THE ELDERLY AND THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE SICK.
SEE IFHEHEY CAN BE RELEASED
FIRST.
>> PETER, ISRAEL HAS SAID THAT
AT LEAST, YOU KNOW, THE PUBLIC
STATEMENT IS THAT THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO BE NEGOTIATING AROUND
WITH REGARD TO THE HOSTAGES.
YOU KNOW, ISRAELI LEADERS
POINTED TO THIS IS WHERE THE
LEADERSHIP OF HAMAS HAS COME
FROM THE HOSTAGES IN THE PAST
WHICH IS WHAT YOU ARE LAYING
OUT, WHAT IS THE BEST SCENARIO
THEN?
>> WELL, I DON'T KNOW.
LOOK, I MEAN, FOR THIS IS A HUGE
DILEMMA FOR GOVERNMENTS.
THE STATED POSITION FOR THE
UNITED STATES IS THAT WE WILL
MAKE NO CONCESSION TO TERRORIST
GROUPS, AND WELL, IN PRACTICE,
WE WILL MAKE CONCESSIONS AND WE
WILL DO PRISONER EXCHANGES, AND
WITH THE GOVERNMENTS THAT WE
DON'T RECOGNIZE LIKE IRAN, AND
WE WILL DO PRISONER EXCHANGES
WITH TERRORIST GROUPS LIKE THE
TALIBAN AS WE HAVE DONE IN THE
PAST, AND ISRAEL HAS A LONG
RECORD OF DOING PRISONER
EXCHANGES, AND THE POLITICS
AROUND THIS RIGHT NOW MAY
PREVENT THEM FROM DOING ANYTHING
AT ALL AND HAVING ANY
COMMUNICATIONS WITH HAMAS.
AND THIS COULD GO ON FOR MONTHS.
THE MILITARY COMMUNICATIONS, AND
YOU LOOK AT THE ATTACK IN MOSUL
WITH ISIS AND IT TOOK MANY, MANY
MONTHS AND ALMOST A YEAR OF
PLANNING WITH THE U.S. AIR FORCE
AND THE SPECIAL FORCES ADVISING
ON THE GROUND TO EXTIPATE THE
FORCES FROM MOSUL, AND